---
layout: post
title: Project 1
---

I started this project excited to figure out how to access data from the internet. I have heard of APIs and JSON before in passing, but they always seemed like things that belong to people more suited for raw computer science. The hard newsflash of this project is that I need more practice with these concepts. By far, the hardest part of this project for me were the technical difficulties that I came across. Near the end of the project, I attempted to download the latest version of Pandoc to be able to include a table of contents. This caused me to not be able to knit my document all of Friday (due date). Needless to say, that was terrifying. Luckily, thanks to people who know a little more about computers than I do in the Discussion Board, I was able to at least revert back to a standard version that allowed me to knit my documents and commit them to Github. Learning Github has been entirely new as well. I'm hopeful that everything has worked out, but I suppose only time will tell. While I have found myself being pretty uncomfortable technically (such as learning Github and JSON and SQL, not so much the programming), I am thankful for the introduction and the ability to struggle with things that seem to be more "real world" skills. 

There are a few things that I would have done differently on this project. While I'm glad that I started earlier than I normally tend to, I would have preferred to have the majority out of the way earlier in the week so that these seemingly major technical difficulties wouldn't have given me so much of a heart attack. I would have also liked to dig a little deeper into the API and what it had to offer so that I could answer some more interesting questions about things such as demographics of the players or salary/contract information. While I'm not sure if that information is even available through this API, I think those would have made for more intriguing plots and such. I found that a big portion of the data we needed to extract was numeric which is often not the easiest to make really nice plots. 

As far as real findings, I can say that front was pretty negligible. I set out to attempt to make good visual representations of data than I did to discover some secret of the NHL. My big take-aways from the project are that I really would like to better understand the way that an API works on both ends to truly understand what the commands GET() and content() are doing in the HTTR package. I'm pretty sure that Professor Post mentioned that we will build an API, so this will likely give me a chance to "get my hands dirty" on this subject. Basically, the more that I learn about data science, the more I realize that I don't know about the internet and little computer issues. Either way, this project increased my confidence a little with being able to discuss how to connect to an API and basic version control with Github. 

My project can be found [here](https://rwest-ncsu.github.io/558-Project-1/)























