---
layout: post
title: R Chat
---

**Everyone in this course had some programming experience coming in (due to the prerequisites).  What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used?  What functionality do you like about R?  What parts do you miss about your other language?  Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)**


I'll start my post with my first programming experience. The first time I ever even thought about the way a computer works was in "Intro to Object Oriented Programming" at UNC my freshman year. I took this class as an elective to fill a gen-ed and I heard the professor was a cool guy. That was an understatement. The professor was a super relatable person and had a great way of explaining (at the time) difficult concepts to poor little 18 year old me. This course was all in Java and while that hasn't been the most useful introduction to programming, the language is so strict on syntax that I had to really learn to pay attention to what I was typing and put on my "CPU hat" as the professor called it. It was in this class that I learned you have to treat a computer like the dumbest person you've ever met when you are programming. A computer is really good at very basic skills that it can do lightning fast. At the time, this was an infuriating concept because I wanted to be able to direct the computer to do what I wanted without having to be so damn specific. In that sense, I couldn't be more grateful for that introduction to programming. 

Since then, I've had gentle introductions to a few other languages like Matlab, GAMS, SAS, and R (I would really like to learn Python). I used R in nearly every applied statistics course in undergrad with my first introduction being in a first course of regression. This class didn't really get too far into the semantics of R, but I knew almost immediately that I preferred the language to Java or especially SAS. R seems to be that happy medium where analytical thinkers can be specific specific enough in an analysis without being so boxed-in. I like that R was designed with Statistics in mind. It's much less "computer sciency" than Java and it doesn't seem to make me want to pull my remaining hair out like SAS does. I worked for a while as a statistical programmer during my last semester of undergrad and my first introduction to SAS was miserable. It seemed like I was fighting the computer all over again because it just didn't do what I wanted it to. I don't normally face those kinds of issues in R. The fact that you don't have to sift through an entire log of your program makes it **soooooooo** much easier to figure out where an issue it. This could have all been due to the version of SAS I was using or the IDE that the company paid for, but I hated it. It was such an awful experience that I have put off taking the intro to SAS course in my masters for as long as I can. Also, being a MAC user makes SAS even irritating. The long and short of it is that I love R. That is not to say that R doesn't have its irritating issues as well, but they seem so miniscule. 

I think that R would have been a difficult first language to learn, but that may just be because any programming language is difficult to learn on the first go. However, if someone had some idea of basic coding ideas like loops, arrays, if statements, etc. R is altogether pretty easy to learn. At that point, the harder part about learning R would be actually learning about the different types of analyses that you can do. 





