---
layout: post
title: Data Science Chat
---

**What do you think being a data scientist is about?  What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?  What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?  How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?

I think that I will fall into that strange group of people that consider Data Scientists and Statisticians as altogether not that different. If I had to submit a definition of a Data Scientist to Websters, I would submit something along the lines of: "Data Science is what happens when classical Statistics is forced to face the big-data and money-making problems of the 21st century." What I mean is that Data Science seems like a very general term for "making decisions based on data." While this is really the heart of what Statistics aims to do, the methods and algorithms of classical Statistics are often slow or clunky when faced with the billions of observations that datasets can have when trying to answer questions such as "What video should the Youtube platform recommend if you watch video X?" What does the industry do when these problems occur? It adapts! It pulls the greatest parts of Statistics, Computer Science, Machine Learning, etc. and creates a new field altogether. Enter Data Science. 

Some of the biggest differences that I see between Statisticians and Data Scientists are the ways in which data is collected. Traditionally, analyses for Statistics are built on data that is very clean and structured. Where a Statistician may collect data from a study or a survey, a Data Scientist may see no issue in scraping a webpage for data that exists there and drawing some kind of insights from there. Both of these approaches will have messy data, but with the Data Scientist's desire to answer the big-data questions, this may not be as big of an issue. For example, in a clinical study, your data is reviewed time and time again to be sure that if you claim a drug works, it is likely not a mistake on your part. Everything is collected very carefully and closely controlled. However, in the world of datasets billions of lines long where the computer learns what decisions to make, little mistakes are almost negligible and ideally they will be reduced over time. 

As far as major duties and knowledge areas, it would be silly to think that someone could be a competent Data Scientist without having at least working knowledge of Statistics and Probability. I think that a Data Scientist should have pretty good understanding of algorithms and efficiency/time complexity of them. The most important (and super frustrating) thing that I believe a Data Scientist should know is how to handle data that comes in multiple types of formats and program in a few different languages. I can't count the number of times I've wanted to pull the rest of my hair out because I found data in a format I wasn't familiar with. 

As far as a self-evaluation, I find myself being much more of a nerd for theoretical Statistics and Probability. I've always performed better in courses that are more math-heavy and that type of thinking is much more exciting to me. I find myself asking questions like: "On average, how many times do you need to riffle shuffle a standard deck of cards before you have a sufficiently randomized order?" And then contemplating what "sufficiently randomized" means. I've had a field day before trying to explain to someone the difference between frequentist and bayesian methods. While I have picked up a fair number of programming skills over the years, gathering data and web-based programming have evaded me, which can seem like a daunting task to pick up. So, as far as skill goes, I would likely see myself more as a Statistician than Data Scientist. But, that's what this course is for! With the explosion of Data Science as a career, I think it is time for me to buckle down and develop the skills such as machine learning to take advantage of the lucrative option in front of me. 






